## Install instructions

### open a terminal:

$ git clone this repository  (NB. it will create its own main folder 'concars')

$ cd concars  (navigate to the newly created folders root)

$ npm install (installs the node_module dependencies as described in package.json)

$ npm run dev (creates the bundle.js and watches for changes to it). 

You will now be able to access it from a browser -  localhost:8080

It is a hot loader so, you just need to make changes and they should automatically appear in the browser..though sometimes, it might help to reload the page.


### open a second terminal
(you may need to install mongo first)
$ mongodb

-- now the database is running


### open a third terminal
$ cd concars/server
$ nodemon server.js

-- server application is now running and it should now be possible to test database calls via postman as well (localhost:5001) 



## About
- React handles state and renderings.
- Bootstrap helps with CSS on buttons and textfields
- Creating an API backend with express and mongodb 
- API has CRUD functionality so far. 
- Uses 'React Hot Loader' which makes it automatically refresh the client side code when changes are made and saved.
- Possible to use 'Nodemon' when starting the server, which automatically updates and refreshes the server code when changed and saved.




## DataFormat

NB. uses unique _id generated by MONGODB

cars:   [  
{ "_id" : ObjectId("5909079b966a6b083ae09a9a"), "name" : "Ford", "year" : "2011" }
{ "_id" : ObjectId("59091312966a6b083ae09a9c"), "name" : "Tesla", "year" : "2014" }
{ "_id" : ObjectId("59091321966a6b083ae09a9d"), "name" : "BMW", "year" : "2012" }
{ "_id" : ObjectId("5909132d966a6b083ae09a9e"), "name" : "Audi", "year" : "2015" }
]



